---
book: Mark
id: 20
---

## Mark 2:1–12

{2.1} And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it became known that he was at home. {2.2} And many had gathered, so that there was no longer room, not even at the door, and he was speaking the word to them. {2.3} And they came bringing to him a paralytic, carried by four of them. {2.4} And when they were not able to bring him to him because of the crowd, they removed the roof where he was. And after digging through, they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic was lying. {2.5} And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, “Child, your sins are forgiven.”

{2.6} Now some of the scribes were sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, {2.7} “Why does this man speak like this? He is blaspheming! Who is able to forgive sins except God alone?” {2.8} And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they were reasoning like this within themselves, said to them, “Why are you considering these things in your hearts? {2.9} Which is easier to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say ‘Get up and pick up your stretcher and walk’? {2.10} But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,”—he said to the paralytic— {2.11} “I say to you, get up, pick up your stretcher, and go to your home.” {2.12} And he got up and immediately picked up his stretcher and went out in front of them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, “We have never seen anything like this!”

## Mark 9:1–10

{9.1} And he said to them, “Truly I say to you, that there are some of those standing here who will never experience death until they see the kingdom of God having come with power.”

{9.2} And after six days, Jesus took along Peter and James and John, and led them to a high mountain by themselves alone. And he was transfigured before them, {9.3} and his clothing became radiant—extremely white, like no cloth refiner on earth can make so white. {9.4} And Elijah appeared to them together with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. {9.5} And Peter answered and said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good that we are here! And let us make three shelters, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah.” {9.6} (For he did not know what he should answer, because they were terrified.) {9.7} And a cloud came, overshadowing them, and a voice came from the cloud, “This is my beloved Son. Listen to him!” {9.8} And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus alone.

{9.9} And as they were coming down from the mountain, he ordered them that they should tell no one the things that they had seen, except when the Son of Man had risen from the dead. {9.10} And they kept the matter to themselves, discussing what this rising from the dead meant.