---
id: 37
lastPageOfWeek: false
book: Psalms
---

## Psalm 17

{17.1} O Yahweh, hear a just cause.
Hear my cry; heed my prayer
I make without deceitful lips.
{17.2} Let my vindication come forth from you;
let your eyes see fairness.
{17.3} You have tried my heart;
you have examined me by night;
you have tested me; you found nothing.
I have decided that my mouth will not transgress.
{17.4} As for the works of humankind,
by the word of your lips,
I have kept from the ways of the violent.
{17.5} I have held my steps in your path
My feet will not slip.
{17.6} As for me, I have called on you
because you will answer me, O God.
Incline your ear to me.
Hear my words.
{17.7} Show wondrously your acts of loyal love,
O Savior of those who take refuge
at your right hand
from those who rise up against them.
{17.8} Keep me as the apple of your eye.
Hide me in the shadow of your wings
{17.9} from the presence of the wicked who destroy me,
those enemies against my life,
they that surround me.
{17.10} They have shut off their calloused heart;
with their mouth they speak arrogantly.
{17.11} Now they surround us at our every step.
They intend
to pin me to the ground.
{17.12} He is like a lion; he longs to tear apart,
and like a strong lion crouching in hiding places.
{17.13} Rise up, O Yahweh, confront him.
Make him bow down.
Rescue with your sword my life from the wicked,
{17.14} from men by your hand, O Yahweh, from men of this world.
Their share is in this life, and you fill their stomach with your treasure.
They are satisfied with children.
They bequeath their excess to their children.
{17.15} By contrast, I in righteousness shall see your face.
Upon awakening I will be satisfied seeing your form.

## Psalm 22

{22.1} My God, my God why have you forsaken me?
Why are you far from helping me, far from the words of my groaning?
{22.2} O my God, I call by day and you do not answer,
and by night but I have no rest.
{22.3} Yet you are holy,
enthroned on the praises of Israel.
{22.4} Our ancestors trusted you;
they trusted and you delivered them.
{22.5} They cried to you and were saved;
they trusted you and were not ashamed.
{22.6} But I am a worm and not a man,
scorned by humankind and despised by people.
{22.7} All who see me mock me.
They open wide their lips;
they shake the head, saying:
{22.8} “He trusts Yahweh. Let him rescue him.
Let him deliver him because he delights in him.”
{22.9} Yet you took me from the belly;
you made me trust while on my mother’s breasts.
{22.10} On you I was cast from the womb.
From my mother’s belly you have been my God.
{22.11} Do not be far from me
because trouble is near;
because there is no helper.
{22.12} Many bulls have encircled me;
mighty bulls of Bashan have surrounded me.
{22.13} They open their mouth against me
like a lion tearing and roaring.
{22.14} I am poured out like water,
and all my bones are out of joint.
My heart is like wax;
it is melted within me.
{22.15} My strength is dry like a potsherd,
and my tongue is sticking to my jaws;
and you have placed me in the dust of death.
{22.16} Because dogs have surrounded me;
a gang of evildoers has encircled me.
Like the lion they are at my hands and my feet.
{22.17} I can count all my bones;
they gaze, they look at me.
{22.18} They divide my garments among them,
and for my clothing they cast lots.
{22.19} But you, O Yahweh, do not remain distant.
O my help, hasten to help me.
{22.20} Rescue my life from the sword,
my only life from the power of the dogs.
{22.21} Save me from the mouth of the lion,
and from the horns of the wild oxen answer me.
{22.22} I will tell your name to my brothers;
inside the assembly I will praise you.
{22.23} You who revere Yahweh, praise him!
Glorify him, all you seed of Jacob,
and be in awe of him, all you seed of Israel,
{22.24} because he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,
and has not hid his face from him;
but he listened to him when he cried for help.
{22.25} From you is my praise.
In the great assembly,
I will pay my vows before those who revere him.
{22.26} The afflicted will eat and will be satisfied.
Those who seek him will praise Yahweh.
May your heart live forever.
{22.27} All the ends of the earth
will remember and turn to Yahweh.
All the families of the nations
will worship before you.
{22.28} Because the kingship belongs to Yahweh,
and he rules over the nations.
{22.29} All the healthy ones of the earth will eat and worship.
Before him all of those descending into the dust will kneel,
even he who cannot keep his soul alive.
{22.30} Descendants will serve him.
Regarding the Lord, it will be told to the next generation.
{22.31} They will come and tell his saving deeds
to a people yet to be born, that he has done it.