## Genesis 3–4

{3.1} Now the serpent was more crafty than any other wild animal which Yahweh God had made. He said to the woman, “Did God indeed say, ‘You shall not eat from any tree in the garden’?” {3.2} The woman said to the serpent, “From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat, {3.3} but from the tree that is in the midst of the garden, God said, ‘You shall not eat from it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die’.” {3.4} But the serpent said to the woman, “You shall not surely die. {3.5} For God knows that on the day you both eat from it, then your eyes will be opened and you both shall be like gods, knowing good and evil.” {3.6} When the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was a delight to the eyes, and the tree was desirable to make one wise, then she took from its fruit and she ate. And she gave it also to her husband with her, and he ate. {3.7} Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed together fig leaves and they made for themselves coverings.

{3.8} Then they heard the sound of Yahweh God walking in the garden at the windy time of day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden. {3.9} And Yahweh God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?” {3.10} And he replied, “I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I am naked, so I hid myself.” {3.11} Then he asked, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree from which I forbade you to eat?” {3.12} And the man replied, “The woman whom you gave to be with me—she gave to me from the tree and I ate.” {3.13} Then Yahweh God said to the woman, “What is this you have done?” And the woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.” {3.14} Then Yahweh God said to the serpent,

> “Because you have done this,
>> you will be cursed
>> more than any domesticated animal
>> and more than any wild animal.
> On your belly you shall go
>> and dust you shall eat
>> all the days of your life.
> {3.15} And I will put hostility
>> between you and between the woman,
>> and between your offspring and between her offspring;
>> he will strike you on the head,
>> and you will strike him on the heel.”

{3.16} To the woman he said,

> “I will greatly increase
>> your pain in childbearing;
>> in pain you shall bear children.
> And to your husband shall be your desire.
> And he shall rule over you.”

{3.17} And to Adam he said, “Because you listened to the voice of your wife and you ate from the tree from which I forbade you to eat,

> the ground shall be cursed on your account.
>> In pain you shall eat from it
>> all the days of your life.
> {3.18} And thorns and thistles shall sprout for you,
>> and you shall eat the plants of the field.
> {3.19} By the sweat of your brow
>> you shall eat bread,
>> until your return to the ground.
> For from it you were taken;
>> for you are dust,
>> and to dust you shall return.”

{3.20} And the man named his wife Eve, because she was the mother of all life. {3.21} And Yahweh God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skin, and he clothed them.

{3.22} And Yahweh God said, “Look—the man has become as one of us, to know good and evil. What if he stretches out his hand and takes also from the tree of life and eats, and lives forever?” {3.23} And Yahweh God sent him out from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from which he was taken. {3.24} So he drove the man out, and placed cherubim east of the garden of Eden, and a flaming, turning sword to guard the way to the tree of life.

{4.1} Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain. And she said, “I have given birth to a man with the help of Yahweh.” {4.2} Then she bore his brother Abel. And Abel became a keeper of sheep, and Cain became a tiller of the ground. {4.3} And in the course of time Cain brought an offering from the fruit of the ground to Yahweh, {4.4} and Abel also brought an offering from the choicest firstlings of his flock. And Yahweh looked with favor to Abel and to his offering, {4.5} but to Cain and to his offering he did not look with favor. And Cain became very angry, and his face fell. {4.6} And Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you angry, and why is your face fallen? {4.7} If you do well will I not accept you? But if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. And its desire is for you, but you must rule over it.”

{4.8} Then Cain said to his brother Abel, “Let us go out into the field.” And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. {4.9} Then Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” And he said, “I do not know; am I my brother’s keeper?” {4.10} And he said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood is crying out to me from the ground. {4.11} So now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive the blood of your brother from your hand. {4.12} When you till the ground it shall no longer yield its strength to you. You shall be a wanderer and a fugitive on the earth.” {4.13} And Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is greater than I can bear. {4.14} Look, you have driven me out today from the face of the ground, and from your face I must hide. I will be a wanderer and a fugitive on the earth, and it will happen that whoever finds me will kill me.” {4.15} Then Yahweh said to him, “Therefore, whoever kills Cain will be avenged sevenfold.” Then Yahweh put a sign on Cain so that whoever found him would not kill him. {4.16} And Cain went out from the presence of Yahweh, and he settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden.

{4.17} And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch. And when he built a city he named the city after his son, Enoch. {4.18} And to Enoch was born Irad, and Irad fathered Mehujael, and Mehujael fathered Methushael, and Methushael fathered Lamech. {4.19} And Lamech took to himself two wives. The name of the first was Adah, and the name of the second was Zillah. {4.20} And Adah gave birth to Jabal; he was the father of those who live in tents and those who have livestock. {4.21} And the name of his brother was Jubal; he was the father of all who play stringed instruments and wind instruments. {4.22} Then Zillah also gave birth to Tubal-Cain who forged all kinds of tools of bronze and iron. And the sister of Tubal-Cain was Naamah.

{4.23} Then Lamech said to his wives,

> “Adah and Zillah, listen to my voice;
>> O wives of Lamech, hear my words.
> I have killed a man for wounding me,
>> Even a young man for injuring me.
> {4.24} If Cain is avenged sevenfold,
>> Then Lamech will be avenged seventy and seven times.

{4.25} Then Adam knew his wife again, and she gave birth to a son. And she called his name Seth, for she said “God has appointed to me another child in the place of Abel, because Cain killed him.” {4.26} And as for Seth, he also fathered a son, and he called his name Enosh. At that time he began to call on the name of Yahweh.