---
book: "Mark"
id: 52
---

## Mark 1:1–15

{1.1} The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. {1.2} Just as it is written in the prophet Isaiah,

“Behold, I am sending my messenger before your face,
who will prepare your way,
{1.3} the voice of one shouting in the wilderness,
‘Prepare the way of the Lord,
make straight his paths!’”

{1.4} John was there baptizing in the wilderness, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. {1.5} And all the Judean region and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem went out to him and were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. {1.6} And John was dressed in camel’s hair and a belt made of leather around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey. {1.7} And he was preaching, saying, “One who is more powerful than I is coming after me, of whom I am not worthy to bend down and untie the strap of his sandals. {1.8} I baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”

{1.9} And it happened that in those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John. {1.10} And immediately as he was coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens being split apart and the Spirit descending like a dove on him. {1.11} And a voice came from heaven, “You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased.”

{1.12} And immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness. {1.13} And he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him.

{1.14} And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus went into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God {1.15} and saying, “The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe in the gospel!”