---
book: "Mark"
id: 55
---

## Mark 10:32–52

{10.32} Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going on ahead of them. And they were astounded, but those who were following him were afraid. And taking aside the twelve again, he began to tell them the things that were about to happen to him: {10.33} “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles. {10.34} And they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him, and after three days he will rise.”

{10.35} And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, “Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask you.” {10.36} And he said to them, “What do you want that I do for you?” {10.37} So they said to him, “Grant to us that we may sit one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory.” {10.38} But Jesus said to them, “You do not know what you are asking! Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” {10.39} And they said to him, “We are able.” So Jesus said to them, “You will drink the cup that I drink, and you will be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, {10.40} but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but is for those for whom it has been prepared.” {10.41} And when they heard this, the ten began to be indignant about James and John. {10.42} And Jesus called them to himself and said to them, “You know that those who are considered to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their people in high positions exercise authority over them. {10.43} But it is not like this among you! But whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, {10.44} and whoever wants to be most prominent among you must be the slave of all. {10.45} For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”

{10.46} And they came to Jericho. And as he was setting out from Jericho along with his disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar, Bartimaeus the son of Timaeus, was sitting beside the road. {10.47} And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!” {10.48} And many people warned him that he should be quiet. But he was crying out even more loudly, “Son of David, have mercy on me!” {10.49} And Jesus stopped and said, “Call him.” And they called the blind man and said to him, “Have courage! Get up! He is calling you.” {10.50} And he threw off his cloak, jumped up, and came to Jesus. {10.51} And Jesus answered him and said, “What do you want me to do for you?” And the blind man said to him, “Rabboni, that I may regain my sight.” {10.52} And Jesus said to him, “Go, your faith has healed you.” And immediately he regained his sight and began to follow him on the road.