---
book: "Mark"
id: 56
---

## Mark 14:53–65

{14.53} And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. {14.54} And Peter followed him from a distance, right inside, into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was sitting with the officers and warming himself by the fire. {14.55} Now the chief priests and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for testimony against Jesus in order to put him to death, and they did not find it. {14.56} For many gave false testimony against him, and their testimony was not consistent. {14.57} And some stood up and began to give false testimony against him, saying, {14.58} “We heard him saying, ‘I will destroy this temple made by hands, and within three days I will build another not made by hands.” {14.59} And their testimony was not even consistent about this. {14.60} And the high priest stood up in the midst of them and asked Jesus, saying, “Do you not reply anything? What are these people testifying against you?” {14.61} But he was silent and did not reply anything. Again the high priest asked him and said to him, “Are you the Messiah, the Son of the Blessed One?” {14.62} And Jesus said, “I am, and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.” {14.63} And the high priest tore his clothes and said, “What further need do we have of witnesses? {14.64} You have heard the blasphemy! What do you think?” And they all condemned him as deserving death. {14.65} And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him with their fists, and to say to him “Prophesy!” And the officers received him with slaps in the face.