---
book: Genesis
id: 6
---

## Genesis 9–12

{9.1} And God blessed Noach and his sons, and said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth. {9.2} And fear of you and dread of you shall be upon every animal of the earth, and on every bird of heaven, and on everything that moves upon the ground, and on all the fish of the sea. Into your hand they shall be given. {9.3} Every moving thing that lives shall be for you as food. As I gave the green plants to you, I have now given you everything. {9.4} Only you shall not eat raw flesh with blood in it. {9.5} And your lifeblood I will require; from every animal I will require it. And from the hand of humankind, from the hand of each man to his brother I will require the life of humankind.

> {9.6} “As for the one shedding the blood of humankind,
> by humankind his blood shall be shed,
> for God made humankind in his own image.

{9.7} “And you, be fruitful and multiply, swarm on the earth and multiply in it.” {9.8} And God said to Noach and to his sons with him, {9.9} “As for me, behold, I am establishing my covenant with you and with your seed after you, {9.10} and with every living creature that is with you—the birds, the animals, and every animal of the earth with you, from all that came out of the ark to all the animals of the earth. {9.11} I am establishing my covenant with you, that never again will all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood, nor will there ever be a flood that destroys the earth.” {9.12} And God said, “This is the sign of the covenant that I am making between me and you, and between every living creature that is with you for future generations. {9.13} My bow I have set in the clouds, and it shall be for a sign of the covenant between me and between the earth. {9.14} And when I make clouds appear over the earth the bow shall be seen in the clouds. {9.15} Then I will remember my covenant that is between me and you, and between every living creature, with all flesh. And the waters of a flood will never again cause the destruction of all flesh. {9.16} The bow shall be in the clouds, and I will see it, so as to remember the everlasting covenant between God and between every living creature, with all flesh that is upon the earth.” {9.17} And God said to Noach, “This is the sign of the covenant which I am establishing between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

{9.18} Now the sons of Noach who came out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. (Ham was the father of Canaan.) {9.19} These three were the sons of Noach, and from these the whole earth was populated. {9.20} And Noach began to be a man of the ground, and he planted a vineyard. {9.21} And he drank some of the wine and became drunk, and he exposed himself in the midst of his tent. {9.22} And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and he told his two brothers outside. {9.23} Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, and the two of them put it on their shoulders and, walking backward, they covered the nakedness of their father. And their faces were turned backward, so that they did not see the nakedness of their father. {9.24} Then Noach awoke from his drunkenness, and he knew what his youngest son had done to him. {9.25} And he said,

> “Cursed be Canaan,
>> a slave of slaves he shall be to his brothers.”

{9.26} Then he said,

> “Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Shem,
>> and let Canaan be a slave to them.
> {9.27} May God make space for Japheth,
>> and let him dwell in the tents of Shem,
>> and let Canaan be a slave for him.”

{9.28} And Noach lived three hundred and fifty years after the flood. {9.29} And all the days of Noach were nine hundred and fifty years, and he died.

{10.1} These are the generations of the sons of Noach—Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Children were born to them after the flood. {10.2} The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. {10.3} And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. {10.4} And the sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. {10.5} From these the coastland peoples spread out through their lands, each according to his own language by their own families, in their nations.

{10.6} And the sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. {10.7} And the sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. {10.8} And Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty warrior. {10.9} He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh. Therefore it was said, “Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Yahweh.” {10.10} Now, the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Akkad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. {10.11} From that land he went out to Assyria, and he built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah, {10.12} Resen between Nineveh and Calah; that is the great city. {10.13} And Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim, {10.14} Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from whom the Philistines came), and Caphtorim.

{10.15} Canaan fathered Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth, {10.16} and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, {10.17} the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites, {10.18} the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. Afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad. {10.19} And the territory of the Canaanites was from Sidon in the direction of Gerar as far as Gaza, and in the direction of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha. {10.20} These are the descendants of Ham, according to their families and their languages, in their lands, and in their nations.

{10.21} And to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the older brother of Japheth, children were also born. {10.22} The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram. {10.23} And the sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash. {10.24} And Arphaxad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber. {10.25} And to Eber two sons were born. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and the name of his brother was Joktan. {10.26} And Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, {10.27} Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, {10.28} Obal, Abimael, Sheba, {10.29} Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. {10.30} And their dwelling place extended from Mesha in the direction of Sephar to the hill country of the east. {10.31} These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their languages, in their lands, and according to their nations.

{10.32} These are the families of the sons of Noach, according to their generations and in their nations. And from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood.

{11.1} Now the whole earth had one language and the same words. {11.2} And as people migrated from the east they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. {11.3} And they said to each other, “Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly.” And they had brick for stone and they had tar for mortar. {11.4} And they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top reaches to the heavens. And let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered over the face of the whole earth.”

{11.5} Then Yahweh came down to see the city and the tower that humankind was building. {11.6} And Yahweh said, “Behold, they are one people with one language, and this is only the beginning of what they will do. So now nothing that they intend to do will be impossible for them. {11.7} Come, let us go down and confuse their language there, so that they will not understand each other’s language.” {11.8} So Yahweh scattered them from there over the face of the whole earth, and they stopped building the city. {11.9} Therefore its name was called Babel, for there Yahweh confused the language of the whole earth, and there Yahweh scattered them over the face of the whole earth.

{11.10} These are the generations of Shem. When Shem was one hundred years old, he fathered Arphaxad, two years after the flood. {11.11} And Shem lived five hundred years after he fathered Arphaxad, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.12} When Arphaxad had lived thirty-five years, he fathered Shelah. {11.13} And Arphaxad lived four hundred and three years after he fathered Shelah, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.14} When Shelah had lived thirty years, he fathered Eber. {11.15} And Shelah lived four hundred and three years after he fathered Eber, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.16} When Eber had lived thirty-four years, he fathered Peleg. {11.17} And Eber lived four hundred and thirty years after he fathered Peleg, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.18} When Peleg had lived thirty years, he fathered Reu. {11.19} And Peleg lived two hundred and nine years after he fathered Reu, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.20} When Reu had lived thirty-two years, he fathered Serug. {11.21} And Reu lived two hundred and seven years after he fathered Serug, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.22} When Serug had lived thirty years, he fathered Nahor. {11.23} And Serug lived two hundred years after he fathered Nahor, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.24} When Nahor had lived twenty-nine years, he fathered Terah. {11.25} And Nahor lived one hundred and nineteen years after he fathered Terah, and he fathered other sons and daughters. {11.26} When Terah had lived seventy years, he fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

{11.27} Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran fathered Lot. {11.28} And Haran died in the presence of Terah his father in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans. {11.29} And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of the wife of Abram was Sarai, and the name of the wife of Nahor was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and Iscah. {11.30} And Sarai was barren; she had no child. {11.31} And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, the wife of Abram his son, and went out with them from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan. And they went to Haran, and they settled there. {11.32} And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran.

{12.1} And Yahweh said to Abram, “Go out from your land and from your relatives, and from the house of your father, to the land that I will show you. {12.2} And I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and I will make your name great. And you will be a blessing. {12.3} And I will bless those who bless you, and those who curse you I will curse. And all families of the earth will be blessed in you.”

{12.4} And Abram went out as Yahweh had told him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he went out from Haran. {12.5} And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his nephew, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and all the persons that they had acquired in Haran, and they went out to go to the land of Canaan. And they went to the land of Canaan. {12.6} And Abram traveled through the land up to the place of Shechem, to the Oak of Moreh. Now the Canaanites were in the land at that time. {12.7} And Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, “To your offspring I will give this land.” And he built an altar there to Yahweh, who had appeared to him. {12.8} And he moved on from there to the hill country, east of Bethel. And he pitched his tent at Bethel on the west, and at Ai on the east. And he built an altar there to Yahweh. And he called on the name of Yahweh. {12.9} And Abram kept moving on, toward the Negev. {12.10} And there was a famine in the land. And Abram went down to Egypt to dwell as an alien there, for the famine was severe in the land. {12.11} And it happened that as he drew near to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, “Look now, I know that you are a woman beautiful of appearance, {12.12} and it shall happen that, if the Egyptians see you, then they will say, ‘This is his wife,’ then they will kill me but let you live. {12.13} Please say you are my sister so that it will go well for me on your account. Then I will live on account of you.” {12.14} And it happened that as Abram came into Egypt, the Egyptians saw the woman, that she was very beautiful. {12.15} And the officials of Pharaoh saw her, and they praised her beauty to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken to the house of Pharaoh. {12.16} And he dealt well with Abram on account of her, and he had sheep, cattle, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels. {12.17} Then Yahweh afflicted Pharaoh and his household with severe plagues on account of the matter of Sarai the wife of Abram. {12.18} Then Pharaoh called for Abram and said, “What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? {12.19} Why did you say ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her to myself as a wife? Now then, here is your wife. Take her and go.” {12.20} And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and then sent him and his wife and all that was with him away.