---
book: "1 Timothy"
id: 62
---

## 1 Timothy 6:3–16

{6.3} If anyone teaches other doctrine and does not devote himself to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Messiah and the teaching that is in accordance with godliness, {6.4} he is conceited, understanding nothing, but having a morbid interest concerning controversies and disputes about words, from which come envy, strife, slanders, evil suspicions, {6.5} constant wrangling by people of depraved mind and deprived of the truth, who consider godliness to be a means of gain. {6.6} But godliness with contentment is a great means of gain. {6.7} For we have brought nothing into the world, so that neither can we bring anything out. {6.8} But if we have food and clothing, with these things we will be content. {6.9} But those who want to be rich fall into temptation and a trap and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge those people into ruin and destruction. {6.10} For the love of money is a root of all evil, by which some, because they desire it, have gone astray from the faith and have pierced themselves with many pains.

{6.11} But you, O man of God, flee from these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patient endurance, gentleness. {6.12} Fight the good fight of the faith; take hold of the eternal life to which you were called, and confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. {6.13} I command you, in the sight of God who gives life to all things and Messiah Jesus who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate, {6.14} that you observe the commandment without fault, irreproachable until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Messiah, {6.15} which he will make known in his own time, the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords, {6.16} the one who alone possesses immortality, who lives in unapproachable light, whom no human being has seen nor is able to see, to whom be honor and eternal power. Amen.