---
lastPageOfWeek: false
id: 9
---

Temples are places where heaven meets earth. It's where God-space overlaps with human-space. At least that is what is going on in the Biblical imagination behind the Hebrew Bible. A priest in this context is someone who is chosen by God to mediate his goodness, his blessing, and his grace to the world.

In the Hebrew Bible, we encounter our first priests on page 2 in the Garden of Eden. God becomes enthroned in the cosmos (2:1–3) and creates humans to serve as caretakers (priests) of his garden-mountain-temple. In the center of the Garden is the hot-spot of God's goodness and life-giving abundance: the Tree of Life. The humans are able to enjoy this gift freely.

When the rebellion in the garden happens, the humans forfeit their priestly authority to another creature who is hostile to them and hostile to YHWH. They are cast out of the garden temple, and the way to the Tree of Life—the center of the garden temple—is guarded by a cherubim with a flaming sword.

As a result, their children find themselves needing to offer sacrifices at the door of Eden in order to experience God's blessing and ongoing presence. But even in this, the human project is tainted, unable to rule over sin. As a result, murder and bloodshed flow outside the temple of goodness and life where God once dwelled with his people.

Amidst all of this, we are reminded of the **seed of the woman.** We are told that this person will crush the head of the chaos-serpent-beast, but in turn be struck by it. As this pattern of priesthood starts to unfold, we start to realize that the human we are looking for must be some sort of priest.